witnesses especially the principle of
two weaknesses witness is a square which
cannot be defended by a friendly pawn of
course it could also be a pawn standing
on this week's square which then itself
is a weakness also what to do with why
did Manx Carson Fabiano Khurana Black
has a weakness on b6 yeah a weak pawn
which cannot be defended by a black pawn
any more and on f7 and h6 and g6 is some
kind of tactical weakness maybe because
why that's why detecting twice and it is
defended twice but ok this is a slightly
different approach of course yeah but
but okay this one weakness on p6 can be
defended by kuranes army relatively
comfortably and this is often the case
that one weakness can be defended so the
principle of two weaknesses is extremely
important in end games usually and in
the game in general rugby one often the
attacker can shift his forces more
easily than the easier than the defender
so white rock now pressure rises both
wings in a way because which one can be
played very quickly and okay white king
can invade on the weak light squares of
the Queen side there the whole color the
whole color complex of light squares is
weak and such weaknesses are very
precarious often Bavaria diseases not
good to have so large V color complexes
while on the other hand it could also be
said that Magnus Carlsen also has some
weaknesses and yeah that that would not
be wrong but
black cannot exploit them and the
weakness that cannot be exploited is no
weakness is also a guideline and yeah
the c3 is defended very well by the
bishop and the bishop is not only
passive it is also very very active it
pressurizes v6 weakness and the weak
squares on blacks King side and it can
maybe also attack the h6 quite quickly
but blacks Bishop is yeah mostly passive
okay it has to protect the b6 but it
cannot okay but it cannot be active
easily it cannot be activated easily so
this is also important a weakness which
cannot be exploited it is no weakness
and this of course also must be shown by
concrete calculation and so here the
following variation is important now
black tries to use the weakness and
attack it but Marcus has calculated
there is no threat because the invasion
of his King is more important and this
really yeah
this really is amazing I don't know how
Magnus does it but somehow always
manages to dominate the enemy army and
here yeah black would lose the exchange
first in the game later of course yeah
this position you invite always wins
now the reason is that he is much more
active than black and this is also one
disadvantage of having to defend
weaknesses passively this may lead in
general to passivity of the whole
position and then there may be other
ways for the attacker to transform this
advantage like this year into his
intervening due to more active forces
and wide wins according to the computer
but Magnus has seen it I don't doubt
that and here a wide would win
immediately
okay so the principle of two weaknesses
is extremely important create a second
weakness and a weakness that cannot be
exploited is no weakness and weak color
complexes should be avoided orange must
be Yahoo then then great care is
necessary and here a veidt's king always
threatens to invade on the light squares
of the Queen side this interview also
what happened in the game now mark knows
played broke h1 playing the trump card
it doesn't certain to take the edge
exactly due to G takes a five check but
there the rock now works on the inside
and the King on the Queen side and this
overloads black defense in the long run
in any case in all all cases g5 might be
in this case more a tenacious but it
doesn't matter it's it isn't it is lost
oh okay what was the reason here fight
to move how did Mark Magnus now start
the final combination f6 and this breaks
the coordination and harmony of the
defensive forces forgotten now it's over
because AB elects King is too far away
from the Queen side - doesn't Magnus
bishop doesn't have the queening square
of the a pawn but it is not important as
a C pawn will win c5 would be a draw but
Bishop b4 and then advancing the pawns
and after some further move to Magnus
Carlsen converted okay the most
important point I want to make is that
the principle of two weaknesses is
tremely important in the endgame so try
to create a second weakness and if there
is already a second weakness then try to
put to use your forces in a way that you
can use your great mobility on both
wings first force a defender into
passivity and then activate your
redressable hewed fewer forces so that
the defense will be overloaded and mark
knows did this year next temporary
fashion his yoke attacks now the he he
yuki changed roads in some way his rock
now attacks and plays on the Kings side
and his King on the Queen side and this
will overload this overloaded caranas
defense